# Polar Wind Plot Image Generator Extension

## Description
The *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension is a WeeWX extension that generates polar plots of wind related observations from WeeWX archive data. The polar plots are generated as image files suitable for publishing on a web page, inclusion in a WeeWX template or for use elsewhere.

The extension consists of a single WeeWX skin that controls a custom image generator. Various parameters including the plot type, period, source data field, units of measure and colours are available to allow customisation of the generated output.

## Pre-requisites ##

The *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension requires WeeWX v3.2.0 or greater using either Python 2 or Python 3.

## Installation ##

The *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension can be installed manually or automatically using the *wee_extension* utility. The preferred method of installation is through the use of *wee_extension*.

**Note:**   Symbolic names are used below to refer to some file location on the WeeWX system. These symbolic names allow a common name to be used to refer to a directory that may be different from system to system. The following symbolic names are used below:

-   *$DOWNLOAD_ROOT*. The path to the directory containing the downloaded *Wind Plot Image Generator* extension.

-   *$HTML_ROOT*. The path to the directory where WeeWX generated reports are saved. This directory is normally set in the *[StdReport]* section of *weewx.conf*. Refer to [where to find things](http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm#Where_to_find_things "where to find things") in the WeeWX [User's Guide](http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm "User's Guide to the WeeWX Weather System") for further information.

-   *$BIN_ROOT*. The path to the directory where WeeWX executables are located. This directory varies depending on WeeWX installation method. Refer to [where to find things](http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm#Where_to_find_things "where to find things") in the WeeWX [User's Guide](http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm "User's Guide to the WeeWX Weather System") for further information.

-   *$SKIN_ROOT*. The path to the directory where WeeWX skin directories are located This directory is normally set in the *[StdReport]* section of *weewx.conf*. Refer to [where to find things](http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm#Where_to_find_things "where to find things") in the WeeWX [User's Guide](http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm "User's Guide to the WeeWX Weather System") for further information.

### Installation using the wee_extension utility ###

1.  Download the latest *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension from the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension [releases page](https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/releases) into a directory accessible from the WeeWX machine.


       $ wget -P $DOWNLOAD_ROOT https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/releases/download/v0.1.0/polarwindplot-0.1.0.tar.gz

    where $DOWNLOAD_ROOT is the path to the directory where the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension is to be downloaded.

2.  Install the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension downloaded at step 1 using the *wee_extension* utility:

        $ wee_extension --install=$DOWNLOAD_ROOT/polarwindplot-0.1.0.tar.gz

    This will result in output similar to the following:

        Request to install '/var/tmp/polarwindplot-0.1.0.tar.gz'
        Extracting from tar archive /var/tmp/polarwindplot-0.1.0.tar.gz
        Saving installer file to /home/weewx/bin/user/installer/PolarWindplot
        Saved configuration dictionary. Backup copy at /home/weewx/weewx.conf.20220101124410
        Finished installing extension '/var/tmp/polarwindplot-0.1.0.tar.gz'

3.  Restart WeeWX:

        $ sudo /etc/init.d/weewx restart

    or

        $ sudo service weewx restart
        
    or
    
        $ sudo systemctl restart weewx

This will result in the *PolarWindPlotTest* skin generating a simple html page that displays each of the four polar plots types that can be generated by the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension. If the WeeWX machine also includes a web server the example page can be viewed in a browser at *http://address/weewx/polarwindplot/index.html* where *address* is the IP address or URL of the WeeWX machine. If no web server is available the individual polar plot files; *dayrose.png*, *dayscatter.png*, *dayspiral.png* and *daytrail.png* can be found in the *HTML_ROOT*/polarwindplot directory.

**Note:** The *PolarWindPlotTest* skin can be used as the basis for a new skin if the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* is to be used in a production environment. In such cases the *PolarWindPlotTest* skin should be copied and renamed as future updates of the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension may overwrite the *PolarWindPlotTest* skin.

### Manual installation ###

1.  Download the latest *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension from the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension [releases page](https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/releases) into a directory accessible from the WeeWX machine.

        $ wget -P $DOWNLOAD_ROOT https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/releases/download/v0.1.0/polarwindplot-0.1.0.tar.gz

    where $DOWNLOAD_ROOT is the path to the directory where the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension is to be downloaded.

2.  Unpack the extension as follows:

        $ tar xvfz polarwindplot-0.1.0.tar.gz

3.  Copy files from within the resulting directory as follows:

        $ cp polarwindplot/bin/user/polarwindplot.py $BIN_ROOT/user
        $ cp -R polarwindplot/skins/PolarWindPlotTest $SKIN_ROOT

    replacing the symbolic names *$BIN_ROOT* and *$SKIN_ROOT* with the nominal locations for your installation.

4.  Edit *weewx.conf*:

        $ vi weewx.conf

5.  In *weewx.conf*, add the following stanza under *[StdReport]*:

    [[PolarWindPlotTest]]
        skin = PolarWindPlotTest

6.  Restart WeeWX:

        $ sudo /etc/init.d/weewx restart

    or

        $ sudo service weewx restart

    or

        $ sudo systemctl restart weewx

This will result in the *PolarWindPlotTest* skin generating a simple html page that displays each of the four polar plots types that can be generated by the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension. If the WeeWX machine also includes a web server the example page can be viewed in a browser at *http://address/weewx/polarwindplot/index.html* where *address* is the IP address or URL of the WeeWX machine. If no web server is available the individual polar plot files; *dayrose.png*, *dayscatter.png*, *dayspiral.png* and *daytrail.png* can be found in the *HTML_ROOT*/polarwindplot directory.

**Note:** The *PolarWindPlotTest* skin can be used as the basis for a new skin if the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* is to be used in a production environment. In such cases the *PolarWindPlotTest* skin should be copied and renamed as future updates of the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension may overwrite the *PolarWindPlotTest* skin.

## Support ##

General support issues may be raised in the Google Groups [weewx-user forum](https://groups.google.com/group/weewx-user "Google Groups weewx-user forum"). Specific bugs in the *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension code should be the subject of a new issue raised via the [Issues Page](https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/issues "Polar Wind Plot extension Issues").

## Licensing ##

The *Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension is licensed under the [GNU Public License v3](https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/blob/master/LICENSE "*Polar Wind Plot Image Generator* extension License").
