Polar Wind Plot Demonstration Extension


Description

The Polar Wind Plot Demonstration extension is a WeeWX extension that consists
of a single skin that produces a html page showing each of the wind plots that
may be generated when using the Polar Wind Plot Image Generator extension.


Pre-requisites

The Polar Wind Plot Demonstration extension requires WeeWX v3.2.0 or greater
using either Python 2 or Python 3 with the Polar Wind Plot Image Generator
extension installed.


Installation Instructions

Note: Symbolic names are used below to refer to file locations on the WeeWX
system. Symbolic names allow a common name to be used to refer to a directory
that may be different from system to system. The following symbolic name is
used below:

- HTML_ROOT. The path to the directory where WeeWX generated reports and images
are located. This directory varies depending on WeeWX installation method and
system or web server configuration and may be set or overridden in the
[StdReport] section of weewx.conf. Refer to where to find things
(http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm#Where_to_find_things) in the WeeWX User's
Guide (http://weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm) for further information.

To install the Polar Wind Plot Demonstration extension:

1.  Download the latest Polar Wind Plot Demonstration extension from the Polar Wind
Plot Image Generator extension releases page
(https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/releases) into a directory
accessible from the WeeWX machine.

    $ wget -P /var/tmp https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/releases/download/v0.1.1/polarwindplotdemo-0.1.1.tar.gz

2.  Install the Polar Wind Plot Demonstration extension:

    $ wee_extension --install=/var/tmp/polarwindplotdemo-0.1.1.tar.gz

    Note: Depending on your system/installation the above command may need to
    be prefixed with sudo.

    Note: Depending on your WeeWX installation wee_extension may need to be
    prefixed with the path to wee_extension.

    This will result in output similar to the following:

        Request to install '/var/tmp/polarwindplotdemo-0.1.1.tar.gz'
        Extracting from tar archive /var/tmp/polarwindplotdemo-0.1.1.tar.gz
        Saving installer file to /home/weewx/bin/user/installer/PolarWindplotDemo
        Saved configuration dictionary. Backup copy at /home/weewx/weewx.conf.20220621124410
        Finished installing extension '/var/tmp/polarwindplotdemo-0.1.1.tar.gz'

3.  By default the PolarWindPlotDemo skin installed by the Polar Wind Plot
Demonstration extension is disabled. Enable the PolarWindPlotDemo skin by
editing weewx.conf, locating the [StdReport] [[PolarWindPlotDemo]] stanza and
setting enable = True, eg:

    [StdReport]
        ....
        [[PolarWindPlotDemo]]
            skin = PolarWindPlotDemo
            enable = True

4.  Restart WeeWX:

    $ sudo /etc/init.d/weewx restart
        
    or

    $ sudo service weewx restart

    or

    $ sudo systemctl restart weewx

This will result in the PolarWindPlotDemo skin generating a simple html page
that displays each of the polar plot types that can be generated by the Polar
Wind Plot Image Generator extension. If the WeeWX machine also includes a web
server the example page can be viewed in a browser at
http://address/weewx/polarwindplot/index.html where 'address' is the IP address
or URL of the WeeWX machine. If no web server is available the individual polar
plot files; 'dayrose.png', 'dayscatter.png', 'dayspiral.png' and 'daytrail.png'
may be found in the HTML_ROOT/polarwindplot directory.

Note: The PolarWindPlotDemo skin can be used as the basis for a new skin if the
Polar Wind Plot Image Generator is to be used in a production environment. In
such cases the PolarWindPlotDemo skin should be copied and renamed as future
updates of the Polar Wind Plot Image Generator extension may overwrite the
PolarWindPlotDemo skin.


Support

General support issues may be raised in the Google Groups weewx-user forum
(https://groups.google.com/group/weewx-user). Specific bugs in the Polar Wind
Plot Demonstration extension code should be the subject of a new issue raised
via the Issues Page (https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/issues).


Licensing

The Polar Wind Plot Demonstration extension is licensed under the GNU Public
License v3 (https://github.com/gjr80/weewx-polarwindplot/blob/master/LICENSE).
